#labels bindings
=List of Bindings:=

I don't maintain any of these projects other than the Ruby bindings, so I take no responsibility for the status of their projects.

 * Ruby - Included with the Chipmunk source, I use and maintain this one myself.
  * Also available as a module for [http://code.google.com/p/gosu/wiki/RubyChipmunkIntegration Gosu], which was featured in an [http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/ruby/2007/12/18/creating-games-in-ruby-part-2.html O'Reilly article].
 * Python - [http://code.google.com/p/pymunk/ Pymunk]
 * OCaml - [http://www.linux-nantes.org/~fmonnier/OCaml/Chipmunk/ OCaml-Chipmunk]
 * Haskell - [http://hackage.haskell.org/cgi-bin/hackage-scripts/package/Hipmunk Hipmunk]
 * Java - [http://code.google.com/p/chipmunk-java/ Chipmunk-Java]
 * Blitzmax - [http://code.google.com/p/maxmods/wiki/ChipmunkModule ChipmunkModule]
 * C++ - [http://github.com/Irwin1138/ChipmunkWrapper/tree/master C++ wrapper]
 * Multimedia Fusion - [http://www.phizix.tk/ Phizix] (look under the extentions link)
 * FreeBASIC - http://code.google.com/p/chipmunk-freebasic/
 * I have a binding for OOC if people are interested, though both the language and binding are a bit experimental at this point.

I know people have also used it from Lua as well, although Google seems to be of little help.

If you've written a binding that's not on this list, send me an email.

=Ports:=

While Chipmunk itself borrowed the solver from [http://www.box2d.org/ Box2D] back when it was but a wee demo and replaced the collision detection added other features, so have other people done the same with Chipmunk. All of them have significant added features of their own.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/glaze/ Glaze] - Chipmunk ported to the Flash AVM2.
 * [http://www.dsource.org/projects/blaze Blaze] - D based.
 * [http://github.com/sykopomp/squirl Squirl] - Chipmunk in LISP.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/physaxe/ Physaxe] - Chipmunk ported to haXe.